how everyone.
So let's continue.
So in this lecture,
I'm going to,
you know,
create a second script on which I'm going to show you how to use the building commands like
I want to use dead.
Come on.
In my script,
I want to use time.
Come on.
This up time.
Come on in my script.
So let me show you.
So I'm again going to use the V editor on the name off My second script.
I can give anything.
Took it My bank,
this one she law Echo on today I did is I want to use the come on.
So you use the commanding after use dollar here on the type did this way you can use and
come on here.
Second is system is oh so system is up and here you can put that up time.
Okay,
I'm putting on it to come ons coming out from you.
Let me make my script executable.
I'm going to execute this one.
I can see that I have got an output today.
There is this one system is up from you have got an output?
No,
the next is you know debug.
That's correct.
So what is the Vogosca.
It was that supposed,
ah,
have a script on my script.
You know,
they are 50 lines.
And when I'm executing my script,
I'm not getting the desired output.
Some others are coming,
but I am not able to understand like we're Is the syntax error Which line?
Like on which line?
My,
you know,
some issue suppose are 50 lines.
My four day lines are written correctly,
but there's some issue with line number 41.
And how would I know that in that case,
you have to run the script in debug mode,
so it will,
you know,
run the script,
one by one line and it reassured.
With output like this line has around,
you got an output.
This line has run.
You got an output.
So,
like this,
we're supposed 40 lines.
It has it on successfully.
What?
It is trying to run the line number 41.
You're getting some hair.
So with that is curved running in debug more.
You will easily understand Where is the syntax?
Error were the issue in my script.
So how to run the script in D But more so There is an option that is hyphen X.
So let me show you.
So,
like we can you can also in the script tight Becerra's as well.
This one hyphen x on the name of my school.
I can see that it is running line by line.
Let me get my script as well.
So this is the first line.
You can see that.
Okay,
Today This one.
So it has it on this line.
Okay,
so in this land,
they have used some variable like some building common that is dead on.
This is output.
This is second line.
This is out.
This is 2nd 1 of this is outboard.
So this way you can run.
You come on in the morning.
But I you can also,
you know,
use hyphen ves well,
so it will give you an enema more discomforting.
So this is one thing.
Another thing is,
they're supposed you want to use some commands in the script as well.
So you can but the hyphen X option in the script as well.
So my script is this one.
So in the first line,
I need to book put this one hyphen X.
So whenever you're going to run this script.
It will always run in debug More only,
right,
Toby,
The small things one should know.
Okay,
No,
next is over.
Important.
That is said,
Come on.
So sad command is a building.
Sekem are also,
you know,
house you to debunk the script.
But the benefit would set.
Come on.
It drives you the booking options which was usually not possible with,
you know,
single hyper next option.
Suppose you know Ah,
harvest script.
That is very biggest script in which I have used so many logic I've used in a while loop I
have used test.
Come on,
I have used you know,
if else have used functions my script is somewhere around,
you know,
400 lines.
But I want that when my script run each time on this certain part of my script should run
in debug mode Not all that their parts.
So in that case,
you can use set.
Come on.
So let me show you.
So this is my skirt.
So I want to use my I want Oh,
but on my script and debug more than you have to use set hyphen X Haifa Next means I don't
know the debug more Your this group has been demo and the but more all right.
So let me come out and let me down it.
I can see that I'm getting out.
Put in more detail That isn't the but more.
I'm going to add a few more lines in my script.
I go,
Hello,
welcome toe.
My online loving classes A big hello to oh my the students right now get I'm going Do it on
it.
I can see that all my four lines which I have written My escape has run up in the but more
right but my requirement is different.
I want my script on Lee 1st 2 lines should be running the but more not all the lines.
So you can,
you know,
turn off the debug as well.
How we can do that you have to use plus X plus X means you're going toe done off that they
but more right so debugging will be running only for these two lines.
And then the body will be stopped for other two lines because it is turned off again.
I'm going to run it and I can see that debug has run up on Lee Father.
Two lives like did.
Come on.
We have up time.
Lost two lines.
You can see that you have simply got an output without any deeper late.
No,
this is one thing.
One more options we have.
Although we have many options.
But I'm discussing the main options which we have in the said.
Come on.
There is one more good option that is to check the you know,
Syntex off.
You escape if you want.
If you have this current biggest grip on you want to check this index like I have a 50 line
A script and I want to know that.
What is there any other in my scrip of more so you can use the set?
Come on on.
Did one of them with this song?
So what?
This option will lose her happen,
and it is not actually going to execute.
Describe it is going to read all your commands on Lee.
All right,
so we have this good,
I can exit good and I can execute the script and d but more and I can find out where we
have the issue.
And what is the benefit of this?
So the benefit off this side hyphen and is that it is not going to exclude escape.
It will just read all your commands on.
If there is any syntax error,
it will let you know.
So I'm going to run it now so you can see there as off.
No,
There is no syntax error,
so you can see that my script has not run up it Just read all the commands on.
If we have any syntax error in this group,
it will be giving.
So what I'm going to do,
I'm just putting some Come on on in the commons.
I'm going to put some Arabs like I'm will be used for,
like,
kept my fight.
Okay,
So after that,
you have to use do I'm missing.
Do I'm definitely putting echo.
I'm putting Hello,
Dollar I under.
So this board it understanding I have sport Luke here,
in which we have some Sendek said Okay,
now I'm going to run it again.
I can see that it has just read all the lines one by one.
It didn't executed and they have home some syntax errors on Given an output like this line
is having better.
Also,
it has provided,
like line number eight is having some syntax error.
Now you can see that line number.
It should be started.
Do only but I so,
friend,
that's all for this lecture.
Hope you got an idea like how we can run the escape in debug mode.
And that's very important toe.
No understand,
but thanks for watching.
So we'll see in the next lecture by ticket.